'Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, 'are you all ready? This is the driest thing I
know. Silence all round, if you please! "William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured
by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of
late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia
and Northumbria—"'
'Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.
'I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely: 'Did you speak?'
'Not I!' said the Lory hastily.
'I thought you did,' said the Mouse. '—I proceed. "Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia
and Northumbria, declared for him: and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of
Canterbury, found it advisable—"'
'Found WHAT?' said the Duck.
'Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly: 'of course you know what "it" means.'
'I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said the Duck: 'it's generally a
frog or a worm. The question is, what did the archbishop find?'
The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on, '"—found it advisable to
go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown. William's conduct at first 
was moderate. But the insolence of his Normans—" How are you getting on now, my dear?'
it continued, turning to Alice as it spoke.
'As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone: 'it doesn't seem to dry me at all.'
'In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, 'I move that the meeting adjourn,
for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedies—'
'Speak English!' said the Eaglet. 'I don't know the meaning of half those long words, and,
what's more, I don't believe you do either!' And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a
smile: some of the other birds tittered audibly.
'What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone, 'was, that the best thing to
get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'
'What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much to know, but the Dodo had
paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to
say anything.
'Why,' said the Dodo, 'the best way to explain it is to do it.' (And, as you might like to try
the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.) 